Let's think about the two business cases I mentioned earlier.
In each, there's a tension between the two extremes.
On one end, you want to deal with the group as a whole.
This is known as standardization and it's
usually the cheapest and most efficient approach.
It's where you basically treat all of the objects in the same way.
But, you'll generally get better results dealing with each entity individually.
This alternative approach is commonly known as localization
and allows you to customize based on specifics of the individual.
With standardization, we can treat all stores the same.
We can send them the same set of products to put on the shelves,
to all sell at the same time.
This is good for the business because it simplifies logistics and supply chain planning,
saving on costs, and making the process efficient.
However, this might be bad for the business because
each store's market could be different and the stores may
end up with overstocked items that never
sell or run out of items where they could have sold more.
As an example, think about how a home improvement retail chain,
like Lowe's, stocks barbecue grills in their stores.
If they were to send the grills to all of their stores
across the country at the same time, say in March,
they might get quite different results for their stores in Texas,
where the weather might be nice,
as compared to the stores in North Dakota,
where it could be still snowing.
On the other hand, with localization,
we can treat all stores differently with
their own product mix that works for that specific store.
This is good for the business because we're able to meet the local needs
of each specific market and optimize the results of the store,
but it's bad for the business because it creates a huge amount of
extra costs and a lot more resources are needed to accomplish it.
Let's think about Lowe's again,
they have almost 2,000 stores in the US.
If they tried to set the number and timing of
those same grills for each individual store,
their distribution costs would go way up and
their product and logistic teams would probably go crazy with all of the extra detail.
So, really in the long run,
neither option is good for
business and that's where segmentation and clustering can help,
by capturing the efficiencies of the standardization and
the benefits of customization that localization provides.
When you break up your larger group into a set of
smaller segments based on a set of characteristics,
then you can expect that the objects and each segment will behave in a similar manner.
This allows for a balance between the two extremes of standardizing and localizing,
which makes operations much more scalable and manageable.
Looking back at our Lowe's example one last time,
if they divide their stores and to say
a dozen segments that have similar seasonality characteristics,
it makes it much easier to ship the grills to
all the stores in a given segment at the same time.
But, the other positive is that they can start selling grills in
the regions where customers will buy them earlier in the year.